---
layout: post
title: A New Beginning
---
Since before I can even remember, I had always had the perception that if I wanted to have a successful career, I needed to get a college degree. And for the majority of the careers that are out there, that statement holds true.  But as of recent, there is a new phenomenon occurring in the IT job market, which is changing the norm of getting a college degree...and I wanted to be apart of it.

Despite the fact that I had already received my bachelors from the University of South Carolina, I found myself in same position as many other college grads today…struggling to find the right job(key emphasis on “the right”, part). I had always known that I wanted to go to college, but what I didn’t know, was what I wanted to study. It wasn’t until my junior year as a business major, when I realized what I wanted to pursue as a career…software development.  Unfortunately, at this point, it was a little too late in the game for me to change majors. So…I went ahead and finished my degree, got a job, and continued trying to convince myself that I had made the right decision by sticking with a career that I had prepped for in college. I was able to do this for about two or three years, until I started to hear about this new craze going on in the IT world. I kept hearing about these “programming boot-camps”, and in as little as three months, a person can become a junior web developer. When I first heard of these “camps”, I thought they seemed too good to be true. But with the position I was currently in, it was a no-brainer that I was going to look into these programs…and what I found was life changing.  

With a rapidly growing demand for Software Engineers, the four-year, college degree, has been struggling to keep up with the needed workforce. In order to bridge these gaps, more and more of these “programming boot camps” are being started. Once I was able to put this into perspective, I began to dive deeper into the research of these programs.  The one concept that I continued to struggle to get my head around was how someone with only three months of schooling could be hired as a web developer. It wasn’t until I stumbled upon a link to a program called Bloc, which, soon, led me to the answer. 

At this point, I was about 85.9% sure that I wanted to enroll in one of these boot camps, but after I discovered Bloc, I became 100%.  What sealed the deal was a webinar that explained what Bloc offers as a program, and why the curriculum they provide works. One major key that separated Bloc from the other boot camps was that it offers a Software Engineering track. They went into detail about how this particular track is equivalent to a four-year computer-science degree, and how people who graduate from this track are essentially software engineers. And unlike the typical “three-month programs” that are out there, this track is completed over the course of at least a year. They continued to explain that they communicate with major IT-based companies about what graduates with a four-year computer science degree are lacking, and build a curriculum based on the information provided. Because of this, the curriculum is always evolving, and is being tailored to what tech-companies are looking for in a new hire. .  When I heard this, it was like a whole new world had been shown to me…a world that included me pursing my desire to become a software engineer. All of my doubts had been cleared, and I was ready to take a step into this newly discovered world…and a little over a month ago, I took that step.
