---
layout: post
title: Recall When You Stall
---
I realize it has now been a little over two months since my last post, but while my blogging has been at a stall, every other aspect of my life, and progression as Bloc student, has been firing on all cylinders. However, despite the fact that these past few weeks have been a little chaotic, I’ll admit that there has been a time or two…or three, that I could have checked in on my posts. So since I’m being honest, I’ll just go ahead and confess that I’ve never been the most proficient writer, and because of this, I’ve had the tendency to overlook my onus of sharing my growth as a developer. But as I have continued to develop my programming skills, my understanding of the need to discuss what I have learned has become more clear. Even though it may require me to do something that I (at least for the moment) loathe to do, it is a great way to reflect and review what I have accomplished. So, without further ado, it is time for me to quit stalling, and throw my blogging into gear.

As I mentioned before, this past month has been fairly hectic. Between having to go on a family vacation, attend a friend’s bachelor party, and not having a functioning computer for almost a week, it has been quite a challenge keeping up to speed on my course work. There were many days where I felt like I had been treading water for hours just trying to keep my head afloat…and then there were the days where I felt like I had sunk. There were times where I felt I had given everything I could have, tried everything that I could think of, and felt that I had wasted hours full of failed attempts with nothing to show. But in those moments, I kept thinking about a time when I first started the Bloc program, and had experienced a very similar situation where I felt like I was in over my head.

When I was first introduced to TDD (Test Driven Development) and RSpec, there were times when I thought I was going to lose my mind. For the first week or so, I would mindlessly complete my assignments without realizing what I was actually doing. So when the time came for me to create my own tests without a step-by-step guide, I was completely lost. I felt so turned around, and saw more “red”, that I thought my progress as a software developer was at a stop for good (…to clarify, “red” is referring to failing test examples). There was one spec I remember specifically, that almost made me throw in the towel. As a part of one assignment, in short, I was required to create an Rspec example that would verify an authorized user. And as I started the assignment, it seemed pretty simple and straight forward…then about an hour passed…then another…then another…and then maybe another, and all I was coming up with was “red”. But I kept pushing, and kept trying, and kept reading through my specs until I found what had caused me to almost quit. A spelling error. I already admitted that I wasn’t a proficient writer, but I didn’t realize how much stress a spelling error could cause when writing code.

However, despite how frustrating that experience was, if it wasn’t for that moment, I would not have been able to push through some of the hard times I experienced this past month. Whenever I came to a road block, and thought I didn’t have it in me, I would think back to that day when I overcame the same doubts. And because of that moment, I also feel that the doubt in my ability to write about these experiences, will also subside. As I reflected during those moments of feeling lost, it also made me realize why I need to write about my experiences…it’s not just to keep people informed on my progress, but more of a tool that will help me realize what I have accomplished.
